# Energy-aware Temporal Logic Motion Planning for Mobile Robots

Published in: ICRA-2019 .  
Authors: Tanmoy Kundu, Indranil Saha. Both of them are with the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Kanpur.

The paper can be found in this link : https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8794395

This paper presents a methodology for synthesizing a motion plan for a mobile robot to ensure that the robot
never gets depleted with battery charge while carrying out its
mission successfully. The specification of the robot is provided
in the form of an LTL (Linear Temporal Logic) formula. A
trajectory satisfying an LTL formula may contain a loop whose
repetitive execution causes the depletion of battery charge in the
robot. The motion plan generated by our methodology ensures
that the robot visits the charging station periodically in such
a way that it never gets depleted with battery charge while
carrying out its mission optimally. Given a set of potential
charging station locations and an LTL specification, our algorithm also finds the best location for the charging station
along with the optimal trajectory for the robot. We encode
the motion planning problem as an SMT (Satisfiability Modulo
Theory) solving problem and use the off-the-shelf SMT solver
Z3 to solve the constraints to find the location of the charging
station and generate an optimal trajectory for the robot. We
apply our methodology to synthesize energy-aware trajectories
for robots with different dynamics in various workspaces and
for various LTL specifications.

LTLPlan does energy-aware path planning for Turtlebot and Quadcopter motion primitives, and LTLPlan\_v2 does the planning for Dubins vehicle.

PREREQUISITES:
--------------
1. UNIX environment
2. g++
3. make
4. SMT solver Z3 (Installation link: https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3)

HOW TO RUN:
-----------
a) Move to directory  ``energy-aware-temporal-logic-motion-planning/<approach-name>/examples''.

b) Following input files are needed in the ``energy-aware-temporal-logic-motion-planning/<approach-name>/examples'' directory:
     workspace.txt  obstacle.txt  2d_template.txt input

c) Execute  ./run.sh tool\_z3  from ``energy-aware-temporal-logic-motion-planning/<approach-name>/examples'' directory.

d) Output will appear on the console.

INPUT FILE DETAILS:
------------
Following input files contain input parameters to the program. Here, we mention the attributes of each input file.

1. workspace.txt
<max x coordinate>
<max y coordinate>
<no. of worker robots>
<original hyperloop length>
<max. recharge amount per unit time>
<no. of recharger robots>


2. rob1_traj.txt (contains worker-1 details, similar input files for other worker robots)
<full charge amount>
<no. of trajectory points>
<position of trajectory point 1>
<position of trajectory point 2> 
and so on ...
<charge cost for moving from point-1 to point-2>
<charge cost for moving from point-2 to point-3>
and so on ...


3. obstacle.txt contains obstacle grid positions (2-D)


4. 2d_template.txt contains motion primitive details
<primitive id>
<initial velocity>
<final velocity>
<displacement of [x, y] distance from current position>
<cost of applying this primitive>
<time required to apply this primitive>
<swath locations from the current location, while applied>

5. input contains the LTL formula 

Similarly, details of other primitives are captured.

For any query, kindly contact Dr. Tanmoy Kundu at tanmoy1040@gmail.com .
